In this video, we're going to start implementing class listener inside of our little test project.
Now, between the last video and this one, I want you to notice I added on another abstract property
here of Q.
Group name.
So that means that we're going to have to define an actual value for Q group name inside of our subclasses
of listener.
Okay.
So let's go back over to our editor inside of our listener file.
We're going to define this listener class at the very bottom.
We'll eventually move this to its own separate file.
But for right now, this will work just fine.
So down here, we're going to create an abstract class called Listener.
We're going to go through all the properties and add them in one by one, along with some implementation
for each.
Let's first take care of this client thing.
So we want our class listener to have a client property that should be a reference to a pre initialized
Nats client, so it should be of type stand.
When I say pre initialized, I mean to say that we should have already connected to Nats successfully.
So the client we're going to pass in is essentially going to be like that thing right there after we
have successfully connected.
So I'm going to assume that this thing is going to have a private property called client and it is going
to be of type, Stan.
Now, stand right here, as you'll recall, is Nat's backwards.
This is what the Nats community calls clients.
We need to import this standpipe from the Node Nats library at the very top of the file.
So I'll find no net streaming and I'm going to get the stan type.
And then back here we now have an error around client.
It's just saying that we have to find this property, but we never initialized it.
So let's make sure that we define a constructor function and we're going to make sure that the constructor
receives a client that we're going to use.
So I'll define the constructor.
I'll say this thing is going to receive a client property that is of type Stan and we're going to take
that and assign it to clients.
So this client is client.
Okay.
Next up, we're going to make sure that we define a group name and a subject.
These are both going to be abstract properties, which means they must be defined by our subclass.
So I will put in at the very top of the class abstract subject like.
So that's going to be a type string.
An abstract you group name.
That will be a string as well.
Yet those are.
Let's now take care of Kuwait.
So this will be the number of seconds that we have to listen to a message and ask it before the event
eventually times out.
So I'm going to define this as private.
Act.
Wait, and let's actually make it protected.
Instead, which means that the subclass can define it if it wants to.
And I'm going to default this to be 5 seconds.
So 5000 milliseconds, 5 seconds.
Next up, subscription options.
Our subscription options in total are going to be very similar to the options we had written out up
here.
We're just to find them inside of a helper method, just to have one convenient location for them.
So define subscription options.
Inside of here.
We will we will return this client.
Remember, client is our Nat's library or Nat's instance.
Subscription.
Options.
We're going to chain on a couple of different options to this thing.
First will say set, deliver.
All available.
Remember, that's going to make sure that the very first time our subscription is created, we get all
messages on this channel that have ever been emitted.
Well then set manual mode.
To true.
We're going to set that equate to this equate.
So that's how we customize the acknowledgement timeout period, normally 30 seconds.
But again, we're going to shorten that down to 5 seconds.
And finally, we will also set up our durable name, the set, durable name.
And for the durable name, we're just going to end up using the same Q group name.
So we're going to use the Q group name both as the Q group name and as the durable name, because it
usually makes a lot of sense to just use the same one.
It's very rare that we're going to distinctly want these things to be different.
So for set durable name, we will pass in this dot Q Group name.
After that, let's put together our listen method.
So the goal of Listen is to really just set up the subscription itself.
Whenever we get an incoming message, we're going to parse the message using a parsed message method
and then eventually call an on message method.
So inside of a listen right here.
We're going to first create the subscription itself.
So Colin's subscription is this client subscribe and we're going to pass it in those three arguments.
The first one is going to be the subject that we want to listen to.
So this subject.
The second is going to be our group name.
And then the third will be our actual subscription options.
So we'll call this subscription options.
That will give us our subscription after we get it.
We have to start to listen to it.
So we'll stay on message.
We're going to receive MSG, which is of type message.
Inside.
We'll do just a little bit of logging info just to say, hey, we just received a message so that we
can more easily see when we receive messages and they're being dealt with inside of our app.
So I'll do a console log.
I'm going to put a little new line inside of here because the log that we're going to do is a little
bit long.
I'm going to put in a template string so back ticks and we'll say message received.
We're going to print out the subject of the message that we just got.
And maybe we should also print out the cue group name for this thing as well.
Just we understand exactly what group of services receive this message.
So I will also print out this dot q group name.
After that, we're going to want to parse the incoming message and pull the data out of it.
So I'm going to really quickly define our message.
Down here.
So remember when we get a message, we have to call that git data method on it that's going to give
us either a buffer or a string.
So we're going to make sure that if it is a string, we just pass some data out of it and return the
result to that.
So we're going to assume that we're going to receive a message, this thing of message.
We'll get our data out.
So message get data.
Then if we are working with a string.
Or a buffer because remember, it can be either if we mouse over data right here, we'll handle it appropriately.
We're going to use a little turn expression to do this.
So we'll say return type of data equal to string.
So if it is a string, I want to do either one thing or the other.
So just a normal ternary expression.
So if it is a string, let's go ahead and do a JSON parse of data.
Otherwise, if it is a buffer, we'll handle it appropriately.
Here's how we would handle a buffer.
We don't ever expect to get a buffer, but we're going to write some code to handle it just in case.
So we'll do a JSON parse data to string UTF eight.
That's how we would parse a buffer and get some JSON out of it.
Yes.
So back inside of subscription on, we will call or get pass data and that's going to come from this
dot pass message and we'll pass in the message.
Excuse me, MSG.
And then finally, we are going to assume that there is some kind of on message event or on message
method that we want to call with this event data that we just passed out of it.
So I'm going to try to call this dot on message with the parsed data.
And just for consistency sake, we don't really know what we want to do inside of on messages yet.
So in addition to the actual data that we're going to throw in there, let's just pass in the entire
message, the original one as well, just in case we need to get access to some other property off the
message itself.
So I'll just pass a message like so.
We are getting an air out of on message.
So we do have to define that as an abstract method on our class.
And again, by it being an abstract method, that means that we must define it inside of a child or
subclass.
Well, very quickly define on message at the very top by all of our other properties about, by all
the other abstract ones.
So we'll say abstract.
On message.
And we're going to assume that this is going to take in some data.
Right now we'll say that it's of type any.
And a message of type message and it's going to return void.
Okay.
So that is our class listener.
A lot of code inside of here, but really all we did was kind of massage a lot of the stuff that we
already wrote out.
This is all the same stuff we already put together up here.
We just kind of redistribute it around.
So let's take a pause right here.
When we come back, the next video, we're going to take a look at how we can now subclass this thing
and very easily create a listener.